README.md, before:

# PINNsWithDXDE

Collection of scripts for our PINN examples with deepXDE

## Installation of the DeepXDE package and required libraries

 ```bash
   $ pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

For more info: [deepxde website](https://deepxde.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/installation.html)

Note: DeepXDE needs one of the following packages for the backend-calculation. Read the website for more info. 

- Tensorflow
- Pytorch

## Testing

This repo has `integration_tests` (testing for examples/frameworks) and `unittests` (testing for specific functions). Testing is done by `pytest` and tests are configured in the `setup.cfg` file. 

To run tests, type on the terminal:
```bash
$ pytest
```

## Cluster setup
For cluster, we should use `conda` since we had issues in terms of package installation particularly the package `gmsh`.  Enable pinn repo to run on cluster:

1. Install miniconda https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html :

    ```bash
    wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
    ./Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
    ```
2. Create the virtual environment using `environment.yml` which includes all necessary packages. 
    ```bash
    conda env create -f environment.yml
    ```

3. Activate the generated venv (`pinn-env`) 
    ```bash
    conda activate pinn-env
    ```
4. To test cluster, submit a job on a compute node. This is achieved through `test_cluster.sh` (full path: pinnswithdxde/tests/integration_tests/cluster/test_cluster.sh).

    ```bash
    $ sbatch $HOME/pinnswithdxde/tests/integration_tests/cluster/test_cluster.sh
    ```
    Number of threads is set in `test_cluster.sh` file. TensorFlow needs to be `intra_op_parallelism_threads` and `inter_op_parallelism_threads` parameters set. Thus, we give  `tf_cluster_settings.py` to the slurm job via sbatch. This enables TensorFlow to set OMP parameters that defined in `test_cluster.sh`.

> `NOTE`: Do not forget to adopt the inside of the `test_cluster.sh` to specify the slurm options e.g., `--mail-user`. But the default one should work without error. 

> `NOTE`: Always be sure that you activated venv `pinn-env` (step 3) before `sbatch` any slurm script. This includes other scripts you will run as well. The reason behind is that activating venv in `test_cluster.sh` needs the full path for the conda env `pinn-env` and it gives some **init** error if the full path is used.  

> `NOTE`: For conda commands: A conda [cheatsheet](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/_downloads/843d9e0198f2a193a3484886fa28163c/conda-cheatsheet.pdf) can be very useful. 

> `NOTE`: Some usefull information regarding [CPU](https://github.com/PrincetonUniversity/slurm_mnist/tree/master/cpu_only#readme) on cluster.

Commit message:

Add setup file, refactor utils

README.md, after:

# PINNsWithDXDE

Collection of scripts for our PINN examples with deepXDE

## Installation of the DeepXDE package and required libraries

 ```bash
   $ pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

Setup the framework using python develop, which will install `utils`.
```bash
   $ python setup.py develop
```

For more info: [deepxde website](https://deepxde.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/installation.html)

Note: DeepXDE needs one of the following packages for the backend-calculation. Read the website for more info. 

- Tensorflow
- Pytorch

## Testing

This repo has `integration_tests` (testing for examples/frameworks) and `unittests` (testing for specific functions). Testing is done by `pytest` and tests are configured in the `setup.cfg` file. 

To run tests, type on the terminal:
```bash
$ pytest
```

## Cluster setup
For cluster, we should use `conda` since we had issues in terms of package installation particularly the package `gmsh`.  Enable pinn repo to run on cluster:

1. Install miniconda https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html :

    ```bash
    wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
    ./Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
    ```
2. Create the virtual environment using `environment.yml` which includes all necessary packages. 
    ```bash
    conda env create -f environment.yml
    ```

3. Activate the generated venv (`pinn-env`) 
    ```bash
    conda activate pinn-env
    ```
4. To test cluster, submit a job on a compute node. This is achieved through `test_cluster.sh` (full path: pinnswithdxde/tests/integration_tests/cluster/test_cluster.sh).

    ```bash
    $ sbatch $HOME/pinnswithdxde/tests/integration_tests/cluster/test_cluster.sh
    ```
    Number of threads is set in `test_cluster.sh` file. TensorFlow needs to be `intra_op_parallelism_threads` and `inter_op_parallelism_threads` parameters set. Thus, we give  `tf_cluster_settings.py` to the slurm job via sbatch. This enables TensorFlow to set OMP parameters that defined in `test_cluster.sh`.

> `NOTE`: Do not forget to adopt the inside of the `test_cluster.sh` to specify the slurm options e.g., `--mail-user`. But the default one should work without error. 

> `NOTE`: Always be sure that you activated venv `pinn-env` (step 3) before `sbatch` any slurm script. This includes other scripts you will run as well. The reason behind is that activating venv in `test_cluster.sh` needs the full path for the conda env `pinn-env` and it gives some **init** error if the full path is used.  

> `NOTE`: For conda commands: A conda [cheatsheet](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/_downloads/843d9e0198f2a193a3484886fa28163c/conda-cheatsheet.pdf) can be very useful. 

> `NOTE`: Some usefull information regarding [CPU](https://github.com/PrincetonUniversity/slurm_mnist/tree/master/cpu_only#readme) on cluster.
